readme.md, before:

# Work Bot

A bot to help query and manage work items across **GitHub** and **Visual Studio Team Services**.

## Requirements

Download and install the following:

- **.NET Core SDK** from https://www.microsoft.com/net/core#windowscmd
- **Git for Windows** from https://git-scm.com/download/win
- **Bot Framework Emulator** from https://docs.botframework.com/en-us/tools/bot-framework-emulator/

You can get either:
- **Visual Studio Code** from https://code.visualstudio.com/
- **Visual Studio 2017 - Community** from https://www.visualstudio.com/vs/community/

Also some useful extensions for VSCode include:

- C#
- C# Extensions
- GitLens
- NuGet Package Manager

## Getting started

Clone the repository using:

```cmd
git clone https://github.com/WrathOfZombies/workbot
```

After cloning the repository run the following to download and install all the required dependencies:

```cmd
dotnet restore
```

## Running locally

Create an `appsettings.json` file in the **root** of the project and paste the following into it:

```json
{
  "Logging": {
    "IncludeScopes": false,
    "LogLevehttps://work-bot.azurewebsites.net/api/messages": {
      "Default": "Warning"
    }
  },
  "BotConfiguration": {
    "MicrosoftAppId": "CLIENT_ID",
    "MicrosoftAppPassword": "CLIENT_SECRET"
  }
}
```

> Note: If you are a part of the core dev group, you'll be able to find the CLIENT_ID and CLIENT_SECRET in **Teams**.

Use `F5` to start the project.

> Note: If you are having problems debugging on **VSCode** then type `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `P` and enter **Debug: Download .NET Core Debugger** to download the debugger.

### Using Visual Studio Code 

Navigate to `http://localhost:5000/api/messages` and you should see a message such as *Echo bot is ready with <CLIENT_ID>*

### Using Visual Studio

Navigate to `https://localhost:44300/api/messages`. If required make sure to trust the certificates. Follow the following gif to do the same: [Trusting SSL Cert on Windows](https://github.com/OfficeDev/script-lab/blob/master/.github/images/trust-ssl-internet-explorer.gif)

## Deploying to Azure

### Using Visual Studio

Everything is configured to work with Visual Studio out of the box. Hence just **Right Click** on the **solution** and click `Publish` and it should just deploy.

> Note: For the first time you'll be asked to login in using your deployment credentials.

If it doesn't work then follow the manual deploy steps or file an issue.

### Manual steps

Follow the steps to deploy to Azure manually.
> Note: This assumes that you have permissions and have already set your deployment credentials on Azure. If not please complete those steps first.

For the first time, do the following:

```cmd
git remote add azure https://username@work-bot.scm.azurewebsites.net:443/work-bot.git
```

Subsequently you can do:

```cmd
git push azure master:master
```

This reads as `Deploy to 'azure' from 'master' branch to (:) 'master' branch`.
Azure automatically detects the presence of `WorkBot.Entry.csproj` and resorts to download and building a **.NET Core** project.

## Helpful commands

### Git

To clear all local changes and create a fresh build use the following commands:

**For a soft clean:**
```cmd
git clean -fdx
dotnet restore
```

**For a complete clean:**
```cmd
git reset HEAD --hard
git clean -fdx
dotnet restore
```

### VSCode

In VSCode the following commands can be useful (**assumes Windows**):

- `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `B` ==> Builds the project.
- `F5` ==> Starts the web server.
- `Shift` + `Alt` + `F` ==> Format the document.
- `Ctrl` + `P` ==> Open a file in the project.
- `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `O` ==> Search for a symbol ie. Class, Variable, Function, Property etc.
- `Ctrl` + `~` ==> Open integrated terminal.
- `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `V` ==> Preview Markdown files.

## Useful links

- https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/other/dotnet
- https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/tutorials/web-api-vsc
- https://www.hanselman.com/blog/ExploringTheNewNETDotnetCommandLineInterfaceCLI.aspx
- https://carlos.mendible.com/2016/09/11/netcore-and-microsoft-bot-framework/
- https://github.com/CXuesong/BotBuilder.Standard/blob/portable/CSharp/README_PORTABLE.md
- https://github.com/CXuesong/BotBuilder.Standard/tree/portable/CSharp/Samples

Commit message:

updated code with isolated MessageHandling (#4)
* working on isloation of MessageHandling

* completed delegated implementation of workbot

readme.md, after:

# Work Bot

A bot to help query and manage work items across **GitHub** and **Visual Studio Team Services**.

## Requirements

Download and install the following:

- **.NET Core SDK** from https://www.microsoft.com/net/core#windowscmd
- **Git for Windows** from https://git-scm.com/download/win
- **Bot Framework Emulator** from https://docs.botframework.com/en-us/tools/bot-framework-emulator/

You can get either:
- **Visual Studio Code** from https://code.visualstudio.com/
- **Visual Studio 2017 - Community** from https://www.visualstudio.com/vs/community/

Also some useful extensions for VSCode include:

- C#
- C# Extensions
- GitLens
- NuGet Package Manager

## Getting started

Clone the repository using:

```cmd
git clone https://github.com/WrathOfZombies/workbot
```

After cloning the repository run the following to download and install all the required dependencies:

```cmd
dotnet restore
```

## Project Structure

### WorkBot

Contains the ASP.Net Core implemenation for the Bot Service and also deals with authentication of the Bot. 
> Note: Bot Authentication here refers authenticaiton between our service and the Bot Framework so that our service is allowed to send and receive messages to the user

### WorkBot.Services

Contains the various integration services that WorkBot supports and aggregation logic to determine the right service to be invoked at runtime. 
Also provides definiton for what models the services would depend on and what models they would aggregate into.

### WorkBot.Core

Contains the core logic to help the bot achieve tasks such as speech determination, routing, dialogs, forms etc. 

## Running locally

Create an `appsettings.json` file in the **root** of the project and paste the following into it:

```json
{
  "Logging": {
    "IncludeScopes": false,
    "LogLevehttps://work-bot.azurewebsites.net/api/messages": {
      "Default": "Warning"
    }
  },
  "BotConfiguration": {
    "MicrosoftAppId": "CLIENT_ID",
    "MicrosoftAppPassword": "CLIENT_SECRET"
  }
}
```

> Note: If you are a part of the core dev group, you'll be able to find the CLIENT_ID and CLIENT_SECRET in **Teams**.

Use `F5` to start the project.

> Note: If you are having problems debugging on **VSCode** then type `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `P` and enter **Debug: Download .NET Core Debugger** to download the debugger.

### Using Visual Studio Code 

Navigate to `http://localhost:5000/api/messages` and you should see a message such as *Echo bot is ready with <CLIENT_ID>*

### Using Visual Studio

Navigate to `https://localhost:44300/api/messages`. If required make sure to trust the certificates. Follow the following gif to do the same: [Trusting SSL Cert on Windows](https://github.com/OfficeDev/script-lab/blob/master/.github/images/trust-ssl-internet-explorer.gif)

## Deploying to Azure

### Using Visual Studio

Everything is configured to work with Visual Studio out of the box. Hence just **Right Click** on the **solution** and click `Publish` and it should just deploy.

> Note: For the first time you'll be asked to login in using your deployment credentials.

If it doesn't work then follow the manual deploy steps or file an issue.

### Manual steps

Follow the steps to deploy to Azure manually.
> Note: This assumes that you have permissions and have already set your deployment credentials on Azure. If not please complete those steps first.

For the first time, do the following:

```cmd
git remote add azure https://username@work-bot.scm.azurewebsites.net:443/work-bot.git
```

Subsequently you can do:

```cmd
git push azure master:master
```

This reads as `Deploy to 'azure' from 'master' branch to (:) 'master' branch`.
Azure automatically detects the presence of `WorkBot.Entry.csproj` and resorts to download and building a **.NET Core** project.

## Helpful commands

### Git

To clear all local changes and create a fresh build use the following commands:

**For a soft clean:**
```cmd
git clean -fdx
dotnet restore
```

**For a complete clean:**
```cmd
git reset HEAD --hard
git clean -fdx
dotnet restore
```

### VSCode

In VSCode the following commands can be useful (**assumes Windows**):

- `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `B` ==> Builds the project.
- `F5` ==> Starts the web server.
- `Shift` + `Alt` + `F` ==> Format the document.
- `Ctrl` + `P` ==> Open a file in the project.
- `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `O` ==> Search for a symbol ie. Class, Variable, Function, Property etc.
- `Ctrl` + `~` ==> Open integrated terminal.
- `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `V` ==> Preview Markdown files.

## Useful links

- https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/other/dotnet
- https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/tutorials/web-api-vsc
- https://www.hanselman.com/blog/ExploringTheNewNETDotnetCommandLineInterfaceCLI.aspx
- https://carlos.mendible.com/2016/09/11/netcore-and-microsoft-bot-framework/
- https://github.com/CXuesong/BotBuilder.Standard/blob/portable/CSharp/README_PORTABLE.md
- https://github.com/CXuesong/BotBuilder.Standard/tree/portable/CSharp/Samples
